upgrade steps and changelog items for server 3.1 (#5475)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/server-3-whats-new.adoc

toc::[]

== Release 3.1.0

== Upgrade notes

IMPORTANT: With this release, the `frontend-external` load balancer has been removed. The `traefik` load balancer now handles
all incoming traffic. When updating from a previous server 3.x version, you will need to update the DNS record that was pointing
to the `frontend-external` load balancer and have it point to the `circleci-server-traefik` load balancer instead. Remember,
you can retrieve the external IP address or DNS name of your traefik load balancer by typing `kubectl get svc/circleci-server-traefik`
in a terminal that has access to the cluster.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

To update your DNS record and upgrade your server installation follow these steps:

```

. Retrieve the external IP or DNS name for the traefik load balancer as described or by looking the DNS A record for `app.<your domain name>`` - this should already point to your traefik load balancer.
. Locate the DNS A record that points to the domain name of your server installation (not the one pointing to the `app.` subdomain)
. Edit the A record so that it points to the traefik load balancer, just like the record for the `app. subdomain does. Your changes might need a couple of minutes to take effect, depending on you DNS service.

Next, from the management console dashboard, select Version History from the menu bar and click **Deploy** for server v3.1.0.

=== New Features

> * Telegraf plugins can now be added to server and customized to use third party monitoring solutions, for example, Datadog. For more information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-metrics-and-monitoring/[Metrics and Monitoring] doc.
> * Introduced the option to use only private load balancers for customers who want a fully private installation. For more information see [LINK TO DOC].
> * Server 3.x hosts build artifacts, test results, and other state in object storage. We support any S3-compatible storage and Google Cloud Storage. For more information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-install/[Installation guide] for further information.
> * Dynamic config via setup workflows is now available on server installations. For more information see our https://circleci.com/blog/introducing-dynamic-config-via-setup-workflows/[blog post] and the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/dynamic-config/[Dynamic Configuration docs page].
> * Runner is now available on server. For further information, including installation steps see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/runner-overview/?section=executors-and-images[Runner docs]. Runner allows the use of the macOS executor in server installations and VM service functionality for customers with server installed in private data centres.
> * The frontend load balancer from v3.0 has been removed and replaced with and Ingress resource and the Traefik Ingress controller. This is a breaking change requiring you to reconfigure your DNS. See the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-whats-new/#release-3-1-0[What's New in server docs] for further information and guidance.
> * The following services can now be externalized. For setup information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-install/[server v3.x installation guide]:
>   * Postgres
>   * MongoDB
>   * Vault
> * Backup and restore functionality is now available. For more information see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-backup-and-restore/[Backup and Restore] guide.
> * Prometheus is now deployed by default with server to monitor your cluster health and usage. Prometheus can be managed and configured from the KOTS admin UI. For further information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-metrics-and-monitoring/[Metrics and Monitoring] doc.
> * Server now supports the 2XL resource class. The Nomad cluster needs to be made large enough to account for the larger resource classes.
> * The lifecycle of build artifacts and test results can now be configured from the KOTS admin console under Storage Object Expiry, including the option to disable the expiration and retain artifacts and test results indefinitely.

Author: ```suggestion
* Telegraf plugins can now be added to server and customized to use third party monitoring solutions, for example, Datadog. For more information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-metrics-and-monitoring/[Metrics and Monitoring] doc.
* The option to use only private load balancers has been introduced for customers who want a fully private installation. For more information see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-load-balancers/[Load Balancers] guide.
* Server 3.x hosts build artifacts, test results, and other state in object storage. We support any S3-compatible storage and Google Cloud Storage. For more information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-install/ [Installation guide] for further information.
* Dynamic config via setup workflows is now available on server installations. For more information see our https://circleci.com/blog/introducing-dynamic-config-via-setup-workflows/[blog post] and the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/dynamic-config/[Dynamic Configuration docs page].
* Runner is now available on server. For further information, including installation steps, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/runner-overview/?section=executors-and-images[Runner docs]. Runner allows the use of the macOS executor in server installations and VM service functionality for customers with server installed in a private data centre.
* The frontend load balancer from v3.0 has been removed and replaced with an Ingress resource and the Traefik Ingress controller. This is a breaking change requiring you to reconfigure your DNS. See the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-whats-new/#release-3-1-0[What's New in server docs] for further information and guidance.
* The following services can now be externalised. For setup information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-install/[server v3.x installation guide]:
  * Postgres
  * MongoDB
  * Vault
* Backup and restore functionality is now available. For more information see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-backup-and-restore/[Backup and Restore] guide.
* Prometheus is now deployed by default with server to monitor your cluster health and usage. Prometheus can be managed and configured from the KOTS admin UI. For further information, see the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/server-3-operator-metrics-and-monitoring/[Metrics and Monitoring] doc.
* Server now supports the 2XL resource class. The Nomad cluster needs to be made large enough to account for larger resource classes.
* The lifecycle of build artifacts and test results can now be configured from the KOTS admin console under Storage Object Expiry, including the option to disable the expiration and retain artifacts and test results indefinitely.
```
